WIP: Add docs for Cloudflare adapter (#3)
opennextjs/docs: pages/cloudflare/index.mdx

---

<Callout>
[@opennextjs/cloudflare](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opennextjs/cloudflare) is pre 1.0, and still in active development. You should try it, [report bugs](https://github.com/opennextjs/opennextjs-cloudflare/issues), and [share feedback](https://github.com/opennextjs/opennextjs-cloudflare/discussions) to help make running Next.js apps on Cloudflare easier. We don't quite yet recommend using it for mission-critical production apps.

You can also use [@cloudflare/next-on-pages](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@cloudflare/next-on-pages) to deploy Next.js apps to Cloudflare Pages. You can review the differences in supported Next.js features between @opennextjs/cloudflare and @cloudflare/next-on-pages [here](LINK).
</Callout>

### Get Started

##### New apps

To create a new Next.js app, pre-configured to run on Cloudflare using @opennextjs/cloudflare, run:

```
<command>
```

##### Existing Next.js apps

Follow the guide [here](/cloudflare/get-started) to use [@opennextjs/cloudflare](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opennextjs/cloudflare) with an existing Next.js app.

### Supported Next.js features

TODO: Check these, what else should / shouldn't be on here

> - [x] App & Pages Router

Reviewer: I think the status is:

```
- [x] App & Pages Router
- [x] API routes
- [x] Dynamic routes
- [x] Static site generation (SSG)
- [x] Server-side rendering (SSR)
- [x] Incremental static regeneration (ISR)
- [ ] Partial Prerendering (PPR)
- [ ] Middleware
- [ ] Image optimization
- [ ] [NextAuth.js](https://next-auth.js.org)
- [ ] Experimental streaming support
```

At least that's what we have tested

Author: thank you!!!!

Reviewer 2: ` [ ] [NextAuth.js](https://next-auth.js.org)`
Should we focus on https://authjs.dev/ instead? v5 was rewritten to run better on edge. It's still in beta so it might be a little awkward to teeter on v4 and v5

Author: Actually going to omit since these are libraries and (for now) I'd like to keep this focused on things built into Next.js itself. Had copied this over from existing AWS list.

We can come back and do an actual list of supported/unsupported Next.js libraries. Good callout.

<sup>1</sup> "Manual" revalidation is not supported (i.e. [`revalidateTag()`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/functions/revalidateTag) or [`revalidatePath()`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/functions/revalidatePath))

### Not Yet Supported Next.js features

- [ ] [Partial Prerendering (PPR)](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/partial-prerendering)
- [ ] [Middleware](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware)
- [ ] [Image optimization](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/optimizing/images) (you can integrate Cloudflare Images with Next.js by following [this guide](https://developers.cloudflare.com/images/transform-images/integrate-with-frameworks/))
- [ ] [Experimental streaming support](https://nextjs.org/blog/next-15-rc#executing-code-after-a-response-with-nextafter-experimental)

### How @opennextjs/cloudflare Works

The OpenNext Cloudflare adapter works by taking the Next.js build output and transforming it, so that it can run in Cloudflare Workers.

> When you add [@opennextjs/cloudflare](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opennextjs/cloudflare) as a dependency to your Next.js app, and then run `pnpx cloudflare` (TODO: why pnpx?), the adapter first builds your app by running `next build`, and then transforms the build output to a format that you can run locally using [Wrangler](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/), and deploy to Cloudflare.

Author: ```suggestion
When you add [@opennextjs/cloudflare](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opennextjs/cloudflare) as a dependency to your Next.js app, and then run `npx cloudflare` the adapter first builds your app by running `next build`, and then transforms the build output to a format that you can run locally using [Wrangler](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/), and deploy to Cloudflare.
```
